README.md, before:

# kcni-school-lessons
A collection of code and lessons for the KCNI Summer School

## How to use git to clone this repo to your own computer

**Note: When participating in the summer school, we recommend cloning the git repo from inside the computational env (i.e. the docker)** 

Note that this repo uses submodules so to get everything use:

```sh
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/krembilneuroinformatics/kcni-school-lessons.git
```

# The weekly schedule:

- [Day 1: Reproducible Science and Psychiatric Genetics (July 6, 2020)](#day1reproducible-science-and-psychiatric-genetics-july-6-2020)
- [Day 2: Functional Genomics (July 7, 2020)](https://github.com/krembilneuroinformatics/kcni-school-lessons#day2functional-genomics-july-7-2020)
- [Day 3: Cortical microcircuit and whole-brain Modelling (July 8, 2020)](https://github.com/krembilneuroinformatics/kcni-school-lessons#day3-cortical-microcircuit-and-whole-brain-modelling-july-8-2020)
- [Day 4: Bayesian models of perception and learning (July 9, 2020)](https://github.com/krembilneuroinformatics/kcni-school-lessons#day4bayesian-models-of-perception-and-learning-july-9-2020)
- [Day 5: Psychiatric epidemiology and Population-based subtyping (July 10, 2020)](#day5psychiatric-epidemiology-and-population-based-subtyping-july-10-2020)

## Day 1: Reproducible Science and Psychiatric Genetics (July 6, 2020)

**Instructors:** Daniel Felsky, Sean Hill, Erin Dickie

**TA's:** Dr. Michael Wainberg & Sajel Patel

**Computing Environment**:
+ we will use our custom rstudio docker, available from dockerhub `edickie/kcnischool-rstudio:latest` [click here for install instructions](https://github.com/krembilneuroinformatics/kcni-school-lessons/tree/master/envs#kcni-school-envs). 
+ Also grab Erin's reproducibiltiy slides from [here]( https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1weWaancrZH39zGSc_5Ew2k6chshadA3QP-H2wRTSJyM/edit?usp=sharing)

| Time (EST) | Session | |
|---- |----|---|
| 9:00-10:30	| Lecture 1: Course introduction, reproducible computing, and major depression | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/1) |
| 10:30-10:45	| Morning Break |Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 10:45-12:15	| Lecture 2:  Genome-wide association and polygenic risk | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/2) |
| 12:15pm-1:00pm |	Lunch Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 1:00-2:30pm	 | Tutorial 1: Managing genotype data using PLINK | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/3) |
| 2:30-2:45pm	 | Afternoon Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 2:45-4:15pm	 | Tutorial 2: Calculation of polygenic risk scores in PRSice | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/4) |
| 4:30-5:00pm	| Daily Social Chat? / Q & A | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|

## Day 2: Functional Genomics (July 7, 2020)

**Instructors:** Dr. Shreejoy Tripathy & Leon French 

**TA's:** Sonny Chen & Sajel Patel

**Computing Environment**: we will continue to use our custom rstudio docker, available from dockerhub `edickie/kcnischool-rstudio:latest` [click here for install instructions]

| Time (EST) | Session | |
|---- |----|---|
| 9:00-10:30	| Lecture 1: Gene expression in bulk and single-cells | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/5) |
| 10:30-10:45	| Morning Break |Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 10:45-12:15	| Lecture 2:  KCNI functional genomics vignettes: Integrative Neuroanatomy and Computational Genomics | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/6) |
| 12:15pm-1:00pm |	Lunch Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 1:00-2:30pm	 | Tutorial 1: Analyzing brain gene expression data with R  | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/7) |
| 2:30-2:45pm	 | Afternoon Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 2:45-4:15pm	 | Tutorial 2: Deconvolving cell type proportions from bulk tissue samples | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/8) |
| 4:30-5:00pm	| Daily Social Chat? / Q & A | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|


## Day 3: Cortical microcircuit and whole-brain Modelling (July 8, 2020)

**Instructors:** John Griffiths and Etay Hay

**TA's** Shreyas Harita & Frank Mazza

**Computing Environment**: we will use our custom python/neurophysiology docker, available at dockerhub `edickie/kcnischool-jupyter`. [go here for more info on setting up the environment](https://github.com/krembilneuroinformatics/kcni-school-lessons/blob/master/envs/README.md#running-the-jupyter-physiological-modeling-environment)


| Time (EST) | Session | |
|---- |----|---|
| 9:00-10:30	| Lecture 1 (EH): micro-scale neurophysiological modelling | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/9) |
| 10:30-10:45	| Morning Break |Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 10:45-12:15	| Lecture 2 (JG): meso-/macro-scale neurophysiological modelling | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/10) |
| 12:15pm-1:00pm |	Lunch Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 1:00-2:30pm	 | Tutorial 1 (EH): micro-circuit modelling | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/11) |
| 2:30-2:45pm	 | Afternoon Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 2:45-4:15pm	 | Tutorial 2 (JG): meso-macro-scale modelling | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/12) |
| 4:30-5:00pm	| Daily Social Chat? / Q & A | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|


## Day 4: Bayesian models of perception and learning (July 9, 2020)

**Instructors:** Dr. Andreea Diaconescu

**TA's:** Daniel Hauke & Povilas Karvelis

**Compute Environment**: MATLAB. 
- All students in the interactive stream should have been emailed a link to a temporary MATLAB license that can be used for this course. Contact KCNI.School@camh.ca with any questions.
- Additional setup instructions are available in the [day4 folder](https://github.com/krembilneuroinformatics/kcni-school-lessons/tree/master/day4#matlab-code-accompanying-day-4-of-the-kcni-school)

| Time (EST) | Session | |
|---- |----|---|
| 9:00-10:30	| Lecture 1: Computational Models of Perception and Behaviour | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/13) |
| 10:30-10:45	| Morning Break |Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 10:45-12:15	| Turorial 1:  Hierarchical Gaussian Filter and Simulating Learners | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/14) |
| 12:15pm-1:00pm |	Lunch Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 1:00-2:30pm	 | Lecture 2: Computational Modelling of EEG Data | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/15) |
| 2:30-2:45pm	 | Afternoon Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 2:45-4:15pm	 | Tutorial 2: Single-trial EEG Modelling | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/16) |
| 4:30-5:00pm	| Daily Social Chat? / Q & A | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|


## Day 5: Psychiatric epidemiology and Population-based subtyping (July 10, 2020)

**Instructors:** Daniel Felsky

**TA's**: Hajer Nakua & Micaela Consens

**Computing Environment**: we will continue to use our custom rstudio docker, available from dockerhub `edickie/kcnischool-rstudio:latest` [click here for install instructions]

| Time (EST) | Session | |
|---- |----|---|
| 9:00-10:30	| Lecture 1: Datasets for Integrative Analysis | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/17) |
| 10:30-10:45	| Morning Break |Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 10:45-12:15	| Lecture 2:  Integrative Analysis Methods | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/18) |
| 12:15pm-1:00pm |	Lunch Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 1:00-2:30pm	 | Tutorial 1: <Tutorial 1 Title> | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/19) |
| 2:30-2:45pm	 | Afternoon Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 2:45-4:15pm	 | Tutorial 2: <Tutorial 2 Title> | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/20) |
| 4:30-5:00pm	| Daily Social Chat? / Q & A | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|

Commit message:

Adding crowdcast password
For anyone who wants to watch the videos later! The crowdcast password is now included.

README.md, after:

# kcni-school-lessons

A collection of code and lessons for the KCNI Summer School.
The 2020 summer school is now over! But feel free to watch the videos on crowdcast (by clicking on the links below) or go through the tutorial code on your own!

**Crowdcast password for all sessions**: Neuroinformatics

## How to use git to clone this repo to your own computer

**Note: When participating in the summer school, we recommend cloning the git repo from inside the computational env (i.e. the docker)** 

Note that this repo uses submodules so to get everything use:

```sh
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/krembilneuroinformatics/kcni-school-lessons.git
```

# The weekly schedule:

- [Day 1: Reproducible Science and Psychiatric Genetics (July 6, 2020)](#day1reproducible-science-and-psychiatric-genetics-july-6-2020)
- [Day 2: Functional Genomics (July 7, 2020)](https://github.com/krembilneuroinformatics/kcni-school-lessons#day2functional-genomics-july-7-2020)
- [Day 3: Cortical microcircuit and whole-brain Modelling (July 8, 2020)](https://github.com/krembilneuroinformatics/kcni-school-lessons#day3-cortical-microcircuit-and-whole-brain-modelling-july-8-2020)
- [Day 4: Bayesian models of perception and learning (July 9, 2020)](https://github.com/krembilneuroinformatics/kcni-school-lessons#day4bayesian-models-of-perception-and-learning-july-9-2020)
- [Day 5: Psychiatric epidemiology and Population-based subtyping (July 10, 2020)](#day5psychiatric-epidemiology-and-population-based-subtyping-july-10-2020)

## Day 1: Reproducible Science and Psychiatric Genetics (July 6, 2020)

**Instructors:** Daniel Felsky, Sean Hill, Erin Dickie

**TA's:** Dr. Michael Wainberg & Sajel Patel

**Computing Environment**:
+ we will use our custom rstudio docker, available from dockerhub `edickie/kcnischool-rstudio:latest` [click here for install instructions](https://github.com/krembilneuroinformatics/kcni-school-lessons/tree/master/envs#kcni-school-envs). 
+ Also grab Erin's reproducibiltiy slides from [here]( https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1weWaancrZH39zGSc_5Ew2k6chshadA3QP-H2wRTSJyM/edit?usp=sharing)

| Time (EST) | Session | |
|---- |----|---|
| 9:00-10:30	| Lecture 1: Course introduction, reproducible computing, and major depression | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/1) |
| 10:30-10:45	| Morning Break |Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 10:45-12:15	| Lecture 2:  Genome-wide association and polygenic risk | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/2) |
| 12:15pm-1:00pm |	Lunch Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 1:00-2:30pm	 | Tutorial 1: Managing genotype data using PLINK | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/3) |
| 2:30-2:45pm	 | Afternoon Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 2:45-4:15pm	 | Tutorial 2: Calculation of polygenic risk scores in PRSice | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/4) |
| 4:30-5:00pm	| Daily Social Chat? / Q & A | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|

## Day 2: Functional Genomics (July 7, 2020)

**Instructors:** Dr. Shreejoy Tripathy & Leon French 

**TA's:** Sonny Chen & Sajel Patel

**Computing Environment**: we will continue to use our custom rstudio docker, available from dockerhub `edickie/kcnischool-rstudio:latest` [click here for install instructions]

| Time (EST) | Session | |
|---- |----|---|
| 9:00-10:30	| Lecture 1: Gene expression in bulk and single-cells | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/5) |
| 10:30-10:45	| Morning Break |Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 10:45-12:15	| Lecture 2:  KCNI functional genomics vignettes: Integrative Neuroanatomy and Computational Genomics | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/6) |
| 12:15pm-1:00pm |	Lunch Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 1:00-2:30pm	 | Tutorial 1: Analyzing brain gene expression data with R  | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/7) |
| 2:30-2:45pm	 | Afternoon Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 2:45-4:15pm	 | Tutorial 2: Deconvolving cell type proportions from bulk tissue samples | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/8) |
| 4:30-5:00pm	| Daily Social Chat? / Q & A | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|


## Day 3: Cortical microcircuit and whole-brain Modelling (July 8, 2020)

**Instructors:** John Griffiths and Etay Hay

**TA's** Shreyas Harita & Frank Mazza

**Computing Environment**: we will use our custom python/neurophysiology docker, available at dockerhub `edickie/kcnischool-jupyter`. [go here for more info on setting up the environment](https://github.com/krembilneuroinformatics/kcni-school-lessons/blob/master/envs/README.md#running-the-jupyter-physiological-modeling-environment)


| Time (EST) | Session | |
|---- |----|---|
| 9:00-10:30	| Lecture 1 (EH): micro-scale neurophysiological modelling | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/9) |
| 10:30-10:45	| Morning Break |Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 10:45-12:15	| Lecture 2 (JG): meso-/macro-scale neurophysiological modelling | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/10) |
| 12:15pm-1:00pm |	Lunch Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 1:00-2:30pm	 | Tutorial 1 (EH): micro-circuit modelling | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/11) |
| 2:30-2:45pm	 | Afternoon Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 2:45-4:15pm	 | Tutorial 2 (JG): meso-macro-scale modelling | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/12) |
| 4:30-5:00pm	| Daily Social Chat? / Q & A | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|


## Day 4: Bayesian models of perception and learning (July 9, 2020)

**Instructors:** Dr. Andreea Diaconescu

**TA's:** Daniel Hauke & Povilas Karvelis

**Compute Environment**: MATLAB. 
- All students in the interactive stream should have been emailed a link to a temporary MATLAB license that can be used for this course. Contact KCNI.School@camh.ca with any questions.
- Additional setup instructions are available in the [day4 folder](https://github.com/krembilneuroinformatics/kcni-school-lessons/tree/master/day4#matlab-code-accompanying-day-4-of-the-kcni-school)

| Time (EST) | Session | |
|---- |----|---|
| 9:00-10:30	| Lecture 1: Computational Models of Perception and Behaviour | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/13) |
| 10:30-10:45	| Morning Break |Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 10:45-12:15	| Turorial 1:  Hierarchical Gaussian Filter and Simulating Learners | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/14) |
| 12:15pm-1:00pm |	Lunch Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 1:00-2:30pm	 | Lecture 2: Computational Modelling of EEG Data | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/15) |
| 2:30-2:45pm	 | Afternoon Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 2:45-4:15pm	 | Tutorial 2: Single-trial EEG Modelling | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/16) |
| 4:30-5:00pm	| Daily Social Chat? / Q & A | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|


## Day 5: Psychiatric epidemiology and Population-based subtyping (July 10, 2020)

**Instructors:** Daniel Felsky

**TA's**: Hajer Nakua & Micaela Consens

**Computing Environment**: we will continue to use our custom rstudio docker, available from dockerhub `edickie/kcnischool-rstudio:latest` [click here for install instructions]

| Time (EST) | Session | |
|---- |----|---|
| 9:00-10:30	| Lecture 1: Datasets for Integrative Analysis | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/17) |
| 10:30-10:45	| Morning Break |Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 10:45-12:15	| Lecture 2:  Integrative Analysis Methods | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/18) |
| 12:15pm-1:00pm |	Lunch Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 1:00-2:30pm	 | Tutorial 1: <Tutorial 1 Title> | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/19) |
| 2:30-2:45pm	 | Afternoon Break | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
| 2:45-4:15pm	 | Tutorial 2: <Tutorial 2 Title> | Watch on [Crowdcast](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/s4qmka1v/20) |
| 4:30-5:00pm	| Daily Social Chat? / Q & A | Join us in [gather.town](https://gather.town/mshCrgMgr6v17lbm/kcni_school)|
