# Simulating Brain Microcircuit Activity and Signals in Mental Health

## Welcome to KCNI Summer School Day 4!

Today, you will learn how to use data-driven models of L2/3 human cortical microcircuits to 
identify multiscale mechanisms of brain activity in health and depression. The lectures and 
tutorials cover two main topics:

- Simulating and analyzing spiking from neurons and microcircuits
- Simulating and analyzing EEG signals from brain microcircuits

## Running the Docker Environment (to be done before Tutorial 1)

Below are the step necessary to get you up and running. You can copy and paste commands from below into your terminal.

### 1) If you have cloned the git repo, continue to step 2.

Clone the git repo, it should take ~5 minutes to download.

```sh
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/krembilneuroinformatics/kcni-school-lessons.git
```

### 2) Make sure you have the most recent version of the git repo:

Change directory to the cloned git repository
```sh
cd kcni-school-lessons
```
Update (pull) and new changes from github, ~ 2 minutes if you have an old version of the repo.
```sh
git pull
```

### 3) Compose the jupyter docker (~15 minutes initiall, ~1 minute after creating the docker)

```sh
docker compose up jupyter
```

### 4) Copy the second URL generated by docker into your browser

Following step 3, you will be presented with the following prompt (without the URL label):

```
jupyter_1  |     To access the notebook, open this file in a browser:
jupyter_1  |         file:///root/.local/share/jupyter/runtime/nbserver-1-open.html
jupyter_1  |     Or copy and paste one of these URLs:
jupyter_1  |         http://2010c053bf48:8888/?token=0b63622625ab5dacfdf89c51205e234d576aa97746be1b61 <- URL 1
jupyter_1  |      or http://127.0.0.1:8888/?token=0b63622625ab5dacfdf89c51205e234d576aa97746be1b61    <- URL 2
```

Copy and paste the second URL generated by your computer into your browser. URL 1 will not work. Note that the filename and URL
displayed above are placeholders and are not to be copied - you must copy the URL generated from your terminal. 

### 5) Access today's tutorials.

In the jupyter's file directory, click kcni-school-data, then day4.

### Congratulations! You are now ready to engage in today's tutorial. 



